Now user takes action.
Don't worry, we are gonna do this because
we're gonna introduce a little bit more
about how we can.
We are no longer getting individual
labels for access objects.
So I can't assume that the zeroeth
element or the first element, or
the second will be our input elements.
I want to be flexible to that.
So I'm now going to use the event
object as part of the event API,
this is the event object that
when the user action happens,
let's have user action that's plough on,
let's have user action happen.
When the user action happens,
in this case, it's gonna be typing.
They're gonna type Li is nice,
highlight perfect, Li.
All right, Li, there we go.
First suggestion and fantastic.
So, Li is going to show up as
the typed content is going to be
the value immediately,
because of our layout and
render engine binding of this C++ list
of elements and the view together.
And now the event triggers
our handle function
to be added to the callback queue and
therefore,
upon finding there's
nothing on the call stack
be added to our call stack there it is,
handle.
And we are gonna have a brand new
everybody who has been waiting for
this moment add a brand new what everybody?
>> Execution.
>> Execution context, beautiful.
Now it's quite an interesting one.
So, there it goes.
Here is what we are going to do with it.
So it's a brand new execution context,
[INAUDIBLE] Quite wide.
Brand new execution context.
But we're gonna use another feature
of the DOM and that is the event API.
The event API, we know, triggers functions
that handle action by user to be
passed to the callback queue and then
executed by JavaScript on the call stack.
But also it provides a full description.
When you think about running a function,
calling a function,
there's two parts to it.
One part is the running of the code,
the other part is
the inserting of arguments.
If we are allowing functions to be auto
executed asynchronously at
a later moment by JavaScript,
if we're allowing them to be auto
executed that's the running of the code,
Could we imagine that we can also
have them auto insert an argument,
that we can then have a parameter ready
and if we've written our code right,
we can use whatever is in
that auto inserted argument.
And the answer is absolutely yes.
If we've gone to node hard parts,
we've seen a lot of this.
The response and request or request and
response objects that
are auto-inserted on a user or
server request reaching a node server,
we're gonna
find that this handle function
that is auto-executed by
JavaScript also has auto-inserted
into it by JavaScript
an object full of useful
properties that describe
the event in more detail,
the user action in more detail.
Like, for example, literally, the XY
coordinates of the input by the user,
is the command button held down by the
user as the input is the control button,
true or false,
held down by the user as the input and
what element was the input happening on.
And that's our key piece.
So not only does our action
by the user trigger their
handle function to be added
to the callback queue but
with it comes an object full of
information about the user's
action that then is auto inserted
into our callback function,
the function that got called back into
JavaScript and added to the call stack.
And that auto-inserted argument,
we would go and
look on MDN to find out what it is.
In this case, it is an object
full of useful properties that
allow us to get more information
about the user's action.
Things like the X and Y coordinates
of what's going to of the user, but
things like where
the command was held down.
But for our purposes the most useful is
a property of target
that has an accessor object
corresponding to the input element in C++
that was inputted into and there it is.
That accessor object has all
the useful properties for getting and
setting the data on that C++ object,
and it has the hidden
link to that C++ element,
which is input, [LAUGH] I'm starting
to lose it, but there you go.
Which is the input DOM element.
Meaning we, knowing that this argument
is gonna be auto-inserted,
need to prepare a placeholder name for it.
Justice, what have we
used as the parameter or
the placeholder name with the knowledge
that when handle does get auto called,
it also has data argument also auto
inserted. Knowing that, what have we used
as our parameter, our placeholder ready for
that handle function to be executed?
>> Are we talking the function handle?
>> Exactly, what's our parameter?
>> The event.
>> The event but what are we given
ourselves y is the parameter name here?
>> The letter E.
>> Just the letter E, exactly.
What could we have called it?
We could have called it justice.
We could have written function
handle parameter justice and
then inside as long as we'd
written name equals what?
>> Justice.
>> Justice.target.value,
we would have been accessing
our event object,
as they call it if you went to MDN,
that describes the action by
the user in a lot of detail.
All the details of it.
Command press down while the user was
inputting, was control pressed down,
was it XY coordinates on
the particular pixels of the page.
And most important,
what was the target of the input,
the element that was being inputted into?
In a sense it's like any function
becoming more generic, more general.
We don't need to specify on
this handle function exactly
which element is being inputted into,
is being handled,
because we're gonna use the auto
inserted argument that makes
the function specific to this
particular input entered by the user,
where our target is this element here.
Meaning, in this execution context,
we hopefully wrote our code;
We hopefully wrote our
code to be able to access
this target use its value setter getter,
use its value setter
getter to set the no no,
to get the value of input that was
just type Li to update our data.
Did we do that Phil?
In the handle function,
did we go and get our data?
You bet we did.
There it is, there it is.
Name is going to be assigned to what?
>> Li.
>> It's gonna be assigned to Li.
Exactly [INAUDIBLE] Is our parameter
that we've had there ready to
access the object, get our target,
which we knew was going to be filled
out with whatever the input object
was a link to it and use its value.
Well, you know what?
Let's write it out, So the target property
has assigned to it an object
linked to the input element.
We go to the linked input element
when we use the value setter and
we get, no, not setter, getter,
to retrieve exactly as Phil says.
The string Li and that then is set as
the string that is assigned to our name.
Our data is updated.
Woo hoo, way, yes side.
[INAUDIBLE]
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> I need it as much as anybody.
There it is.
Well done, everybody.
And so we have now, and we're gonna
come to thumbs on that in a second.
Don't worry, people,
we now have our data updated.
Now things get really interesting.
Let's talk through what's gonna
run well at any moment of course,
our wonderful binding
the creator takes our new data,
creates our visual virtual
JavaScript DOM representation of
what's gonna show up on
the page with that new data.
Then converts it into real
elements to be appended or
replace the existing ones and
show up on the page.
Honestly, it is repetitive.
Great UI engineering's really
difficult to track event,
consequences of change of data otherwise,
being repetitive is good.
And exhausting.
[LAUGH] Being repetitive is good and
quite right too.
So, we now hit what function Y is
going to be put into the not, sorry,
put into the callback queue because
it's running every 15 milliseconds.
>> The browser adds update DOM.
>> Update DOM-
>> Which eventually gets put onto the call
stack, gets those pink parens added.
>> Perfect.
And create a brand new what?
>> Do I get to say it?
>> You do.
>> Execution context.
>> Thank you, y there it is.
Update DOM and brand new
execution context and there it is.
Getting a bit tight cuz this
took too much space, whoops.
However, all we're gonna do in it, hey,
we don't even need to think about it.
You know what?
The best thing is if
we've made this code for
ourselves are we even thinking at this
moment about how to change the page?
No, we described it already.
We described it already based on how
the user was going to and then what,
the underlying data would
be funneled through again.
So let's do that.
But we're only gonna describe it verbally,
pseudocode what happens.
So update DOM is going to run,
why what function.
>> First it's going to call create V DOM.
>> Yeah.
So it's going to, I guess,
create the V DOM with our new,
>> With the new values of name.
>> Perfect, yeah.
So one, create V DOM
with new data of name.
Perfect, exactly, data of name,
and that is now Li.
So this is going to be
completely deleted and
I am gonna, Do that just so
that we can appreciate it being fully
recreated and yeah, there you go.
Fully recreated.
And what are our elements in it?
Walk me through them
if you don't mind why.
>> Absolutely, we've got three arrays.
The first one contains the string input.
>> Beautiful.
>> The string, Li.
>> And the function definition
of the function handle.
>> Yeah, we can call it callback,
I guess, but exactly, it's handle.
And then the next one is?
>> The string div, the string hello Li,
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> Look at that, beautiful, done.
[LAUGH]
>> Yes, look at that, exactly.
Fully filled out.
We knew that because look how
visual our code is in JavaScript.
I was able to go [SOUND] Because I knew
exactly what it was gonna look like.
Fabulous, excellent from Y.
Now we run the update function.
Update, sorry, we run the, well, tell me
again why you're doing better than me.
>> So since VDOM is just a JavaScript
array, we're then going to map over it.
>> Yep.
>> Calling the function convert on each
item in that array.
>> VDOM each element converted to a new
tell me you're doing so well.
Well, honestly better than me,
I'm getting tired.
So you're doing a better job than
me tell me what's happening.
>> Let me know if you want
to go into greater detail.
But basically, we're taking each
item in that JavaScript array and
returning a JavaScript accessor object
provides a hidden link to a DOM node.
>> Yes, a DOM node better term than I'm
using the arrow DOM element, but yeah,
DOM node
>> And
a JavaScript object with access to it.
Beautiful, let's do this.
Let's not redraw these all, but
these are therefore all gonna
be brand new accessor objects.
>> And we'll lose all of these links to
the old ones and we're gonna have here.
Can we draw this hopefully
relatively nicely.
Wasn't a great start, was it?
Dear.
There we go.
Draw these relatively nicely and
new DOM nodes, which are input,
they are a div, they are another div.
The last div here has text of great job.
I think the fun thing is people is
that we're not doing any of this.
Our work was done the moment that we
changed the data with the handle,
that was our work done.
Unfortunately, as engineers,
our work done because updateDOM, it's just
gonna run again and take our description
in a way that createVDOM is a one-time and
done description of under all possible
states stated values in this case name and
in case Li that gives a full
description of what's gonna show up.
So our work's kind of done.
It's beautiful for
it but unfortunately for
the purposes of visualizing it for
everybody, we are walking through it.
I say, unfortunately, but
you know what I mean?
Like, we wouldn't have to
just make it really clear.
That's the whole point is we wouldn't have
to because it's all being described by our
nice initial layout here.
That's really cool, maybe other people,
but I think it's kind of cool.
And then we have, hello, and
it would be hello Li.
Am I right on this or
am I missing anything here?
So far, all good.
Yeah, and then we have our value
being repopulated with Li.
And our input handler having
a new reference to the same
underlying handle input function.
There it is, hand, sorry, handle function.
There it is.
And, I'm tracking stuff all across here.
There we go.
Okay, perfect.
These brand new accessor objects each is
linked to, respectively, input, div, and div.
Perfect, we then use our document board.
Well, tell me what's happening here.
Why, if you don't mind?
>> Absolutely.
The final line of this function,
we're going to spread the elems
array into the call to the replace-
>> That turns each
array element which is three different 1,
2, 3 or 0, 1, 2,
accessor objects to our new input div and
div in the DOM.
It spreads those into
individual arguments to be,
>> Into positional arguments that
are parsed to the replace children
method on the body object
of the document object and that in turn
>> Replace children call or
whatever, yeah, I shouldn't have done this
order in this order but yeah, exactly to
replace children which will take the links
to these three elements and replace this
set of children on body does that doesn't
matter how many that would be here.
These will just all be replaced and
we instead get body linking and
sorry for this here, but
instead body linking to or
sorry having children appending input
div and div as these were removed,
then our page here would
lose those elements.
But don't panic.
We would have new ones re-added
with what the user just wrote.
So they don't even see any
difference as long as we
refocus the cursor on that field.
And then div elements
with hello, Li.
And great job yes give a big
hand to [INAUDIBLE] It's
an excellent technical communication.
>> [APPLAUSE]
>> Beautiful.